전제주의적 재산권에 대한 사고실험

[중략]

다니엘은 플레이할 수 있는 컨페드워즈의 시나리오를 탐색했다. 그들은 모든 메인 스토리 미션을 마쳤고, 결말 부분을 해금했다. IA의 개발자는 "어떻게 모든것이 시작되었는가"챕터를 가장 마지막에 배치하는 것이 좋은 아이디어라고 생각한 모양이다. 결말 레벨은 모든 컨페트워즈 레벨 중에서 가장 이른 시기인, 2033년 10월의 와이오밍으로 세팅되어있었다. 다니엘은 "중립적인 이방인"을 그의 시작포지션으로 선택했으며, 자기 스스로를 플레이할 심산으로, "외국인 학자"를 캐릭터로 골랐다.


그는 길 모퉁이에 서있었으며, 그가 가장 먼저 알아챈 것은 'Here's to you'의 전주부분 코드가 연주되는 동안 곳곳에 보이는 먼지였다. 보이는 모든 장소가 먼지로 뒤덮여 있었고, 그가 보는 그래픽은 이번에 뭔가 좀 달랐다. 컨페드워즈에서 보통 볼 수 있는 극사실주의적 그래픽이 아닌, 향수를 불러일으키는 적갈색 세피아 필터링이 온 세상을 칠하고 있었다. 그리고, 아주 전형적인 클리셰로군. 회전초 하나가 거리를 굴러다니고 있다.  

It’s high noon, and no one in sight, except a homeless person sleeping under the town sign. “Welcome to Rawlins” and below that, in smaller letters “Carbon County”, and even smaller “Wyoming”. Though the sign is faded and barely legible, he can still make out a single white star on blue ground in the upper right corner. He walks into town as the soundtrack reaches its peak. It’s all run down, including the few people scuttling along the streets. Most of the yards have for-sale signs, broken windows, weeds growing everywhere. More dust, and the song ends.
시간은 정오였고, 마을 표지판 아래에 잠들어있는 노숙자를 제외하고는 아무도 눈에 띄지 않았다. "롤린스에 어서오세요"그리고 그 아래에는, 작은 글자로 "카본 주", 더 작은 글자로는 "와이오밍"이라고 쓰여있다. 비록 표지판이 바래어 간신히 알아볼 정도긴 해도, 다니엘은 우측 상단에 있는 파란 배경에 놓인 하얀 별을 발견할 수 있었다. 다니엘이 마을 안으로 들어가자 배경음악은 절정부분에 이르렀다. 길 어귀를 바삐 거니는 사람들과 마을은 모두 황폐해 보였다. 대부분의 마당에는 판매중 표지판이 놓여있었고, 깨진 창문과 잡초들이 즐비했다. 먼지가 더 일었고, 음악은 끝났다.  

Two teenagers on bicycles, a girl and a guy. “Hey old man, how ya doin’?” The guy is a gangly redhead with a birthmark on his left cheek. Torn hoodie, jeans, baseball cap.
두 명의 십대 소년, 소녀가 자전거 위에 있었다. "어이 아저씨, 요새 어때요?" 호리호리한 붉은 머리의 소년은 왼 뺨에 점이 나있었다. 찢어진 후드, 청바지, 야구모자 차림이었다.

“Not too bad, how are you? I just got to town, looking for a bite to eat…” One of Confedwar’s most annoying features is the virtual hunger created by the neural stimulation of Daniel’s stomach area, it feels just like the real thing.
"그저 그래, 넌 어떠냐? 방금 마을에 막 도착했는데, 어디 좀 먹을데를 찾고있어..." 컨페드워즈의 가장 짜증나는 특징 중 하나는 신경자극에 의해 다니앨의 위장에 가상의 배고픔이 생성된다는 것이다. 그 배고픔은 진짜처럼 느껴졌다.

The girl points to the back of her bike. “Why don’t you just come with us? We still have some corn and eggs”, so Daniel jumps on behind. They head south, passing a burned out structure — the sign above the door says “Rawlins Coal Board”.
소녀는 그녀의 자전거 뒷쪽을 가리켰다. "저희랑 같이 가실래요? 아직 약간의 옥수수랑 달걀은 있거든요." 그래서 다니엘은 뒤에 올라탔다. 일행은 불탄 구조물을 지나쳐 남쪽으로 향했다. 문 위의 표지판에는 "롤린스 석탄 위원회"라고 쓰여있었다.

Daniel asks his driver: “What’s going on here, the burnt-out ruins…?” She gives him a guarded look. “You’re a foreigner, huh? Never heard of Burning November? There was a bunch of terror attacks last year. So everything shut down, all the mines are closed, and the little gas that’s left is pumped automatically. No jobs, no future, the tap water is still poisoned, Carbon County is dying. Anybody who can has already moved away. We’re lucky Jack’s parents have land, we at least get some food from there.” They’ve stopped at another ruined house, with another for-sale sign on the fence and go inside.
다니엘은 운전자에게 물어봤다. "여기 불 타버린 폐허에 무슨 일이 있었던거냐?" 소녀는 다니엘에게 경계하는 눈빛을 보냈다. "아저씬 외국인인가보죠? 불 타는 11월에 대해 들어본 적 없어요? 작년에 수 차례의 테러 공격이 있었어요. 그래서 모든것이 멈추고, 광산들은 문을 닫고, 남아있던 약간의 가스도 다 써버렸죠. 일자리도, 미래도 없고, 수돗물은 오염되어있고, 카본 주는 죽어가고있죠. 떠날 수 있는 사람들은 이미 다 떠났어요. 우리 땅이라도 있어서 천만 다행인게, 거기서 간신히 음식이나마 얻을 수 있거든요." 일행은 판매중 표지판이 서 있는 또 다른 폐가에 멈춰서서, 울타리를 넘어 안으로 들어갔다.

Ana decides it’s time for another personal reveal. She picks her real-life avatar and materializes by a fireplace, frying eggs and corn cakes in a cast iron pan just moments before Daniel arrives. “Hi stranger! I’m Ana.” Let’s see how long it will take him to figure out who she is playing. He’s only ever known her as Riki the Ninja.

The tall redheaded guy gives him a nod. “I’m Jack. Welcome to the Rawlins Raccoons!” The other girl is called Wicki — Jack’s girlfriend. She immediately retreats, pulls up her hood, and hunkers down in a corner, riveted to her laptop screen while they chitchat over corn cakes and eggs. The simulation of taste and texture in the mouth feels strange and unreal, but at least the simulated hunger goes away.

Without looking up, Wicki calls out to them: “Hey raccoons, get this. They passed a new law. The county can sell empty properties if the owner can’t be reached. Where do we go if they sell our hideout?”

A mobile phone rings, Jack checks his messages. “This is unreal. My parents. The first message in months, and guess what? They’re selling the farm and moving to Utah. Goddammit!”

And lights out. No more power. It’s new moon and pitch dark. Daniel is rapidly fading — another 10 out of 10 realism feature: He falls into real sleep on a virtual sofa. He couldn’t have said how much time passed in the outer world, but in Wyoming he’s sleeping in.

Ana gets up a little before him and shakes him awake. “Come on, you’ve got to see this…” She pulls him to the window. “Wicki got a job in that new store over there.”

Daniel hardly recognizes the Rawlins of yesterday. Big trucks, workers, renovations — they’re just putting up a “Wal-Rent-All” sign across the road. Ana and Daniel go in, and find Wicki stocking shelves. “Hey there! How’s it going?”

Daniel is looking around the seemingly random assortment of household items “What’s this store?”

Wicki replies: “Don’t ask me, but business is definitely booming. They’re buying all kinds of stuff and renting it out again. Clothes, vacuum cleaners, stereos, washing machines, just everything…”

Ana has played the scenario before and knows what to ask for: “We need two bikes.”

Wicki points across the aisle. “Over there, three dollars a week. Take the two green ones, they are in good shape.”

Daniel and Ana go back to the house, the place has already been fenced off. Jack is arguing with a security guy, “Sorry man, but this is private property. You can’t just walk in there like that.”

Jack is pleading. “Listen, we live there. Our stuff is all in there. You can’t kick us out just like that!” The security guard is unmoved: “I’m afraid we can. This house is owned by the Resiwal. I have to ask you to leave immediately, or I will call the police.”

Jack’s body is tensing up, but Ana has the presence of mind to hold him back. She leans forward and grabs his shoulder. “Let it go Jack, brawling with security won’t help. Let’s get Wicki and figure out what to do next. You can’t get anything done from jail, you’ve been there before, right?”

Daniel is watching their confrontation when a black SUV pulls up next to him. “Hi there! Are you Professor Proudhon?” Late thirties, blond hair, black business dress and heels.

“Yes?”

“Pleasure to meet you. I’m Nancy Foster, Outreach and Media Relations Manager at Walfrastructure. We’re looking to hire someone of your caliber. Interested?”

Daniel is confused: “Ehm, sure?”

“Come on then, I’ll brief you in the car” Nancy opens the rear door with a welcoming flourish.

Daniel looks over at Ana and Jack, and realizes he has to decide right now between the resistance and the evil empire! But then — IA games usually allow more complex decision pathways, too. He whispers to Jack, “Meet you at midnight, by the old high school.” Jack nods and Daniel hops into the black Ford.

“So, tonight the task is quite simple. As a professor, you certainly know the core literature on liberal market philosophy, right?”

“I sure do, the invisible hand, inefficiency of planning bureaus, creation of the public good through ‘every man for himself’ and so on.” Daniel quotes a few lines from Smith and Friedman from memory.

“And don’t forget Rand.”

Daniel sighs — Ayn Rand, the quasi-religious fanatic plutocratic idol with her endless rants. “Yes, sure, Rand, entrepreneurs are all good looking angels.”

“Excellent. We need five minutes of that on camera.” The car pulls into a parking lot next to the TV studio located in a double-wide trailer. The spotlight is on Daniel, and he reproduces classic Atlas foundation propaganda, cherry-picked Adam Smith and Milton Friedman quotes, the greatest threat to freedom is the concentration of power, and he raves on about how the only good state is a small state, just hire the night watchmen to keep your holy private property safe and leave everything to the invisible hand. And once you just let those great entrepreneurs do what they are best at, they will solve all our problems, John Galt even breaks the first law of thermodynamics. Daniel rambles through the entire pantheon of plutocratic utopian propaganda, fantasies he’s always considered toxic bullshit, but still knows well enough to play devil’s advocate for a few minutes.

Yet he can’t help himself from testing how well the game knows its own literature, and so he ends his speech referencing John Locke: “The highest power cannot take any part of a man’s property without his consent.” And indeed, the irony goes unnoticed, his speech is applauded without the slightest hesitation, despite Locke following up those words a few lines later by defining “his own consent” as the consent of the majority, putting this founding father of modern political philosophy well in line with his own anarchistic namesake.

Nancy Foster closes the live show by claiming, “And now Wyoming has done it — freed from the oppression of the state, the new man is born and evolves to his full potential.” Obviously the capitalo-facists are also abusing evolutionary theory, as their kind have always loved to do.

And that was that, he gets a thousand USD as promised, on a prepaid credit card. Nancy tells him, “I’ve got another gig for you. I’ll be driving to Cheyenne early tomorrow, it would be a $3'000 job for you this time. We need a consultant on privatizing the police force.” She proceeds to take him out to dinner with some other Wal-Corp employees, it’s the launch of a brand new club restaurant. Dinner with champagne, all kinds of fancy food, even caviar, woo-woo! Cheap symbolism. The business small talk is mind numbing, so Daniel decides to leave.

Fresh, cool air on his face, and Daniel starts walking towards the school. Losing his way costs him a few minutes, so he gets to the high school a little past midnight “Sorry, I got lost. What the hell is going on here? Where does all the money come from? And what’s their goal?”

Wicki, head bent down at her phone: “And Walton is behind all of it. Here, I found the info. An indymedia forum on the dark web: John Walton, the last living Wal-Mart heir, net worth estimated at a ludicrous trillion dollars. He owns Mediawal, Walsecure, Resiwal, Walfrastructure, Enerwal, Comiwalcations, CleanWalter, Rent-it-Wal, all of them. See that logo?” She shows her phone to the others — a walrus on a shield, and crossed swords below it.

“He definitely has a class-conscious sense of aesthetics…”

Wicki reads on. “The Indymedia journalist estimates Walton owns approximately 80% of all private property in Wyoming now, the trend is rising.”

Ana gives Daniel a wink: “We’re approaching the wealth singularity.”

“Where one person owns everything.” He’s finally recognized his ally’s identity. The Ninja is a quick learner, already applying the singularity concept to other realms of life. He smiles at the female teenage avatar, and gives her a little wink.

Jack interrupts: “Get this. Senator McPhail was out there promoting a new law to slow Wal down. She never made it to parliament on the day of the vote. Reason: she was driving on a Walfrastructure road with a non-licensed vehicle, namely her own. The terms of use allow only Rent-it-Wal cars to use those roads. They confiscated her car on the spot. By the time she made it to parliament on foot, six hours later, the vote had already gone down and her proposal was rejected.”

A moment of solemn silence, Wicki and Jack look at each other. Jack starts to sing in a low tune “Do you hear the people sing, singing the song of angry men…”

His voice is amplified, and the revolutionary hymn from Les Miserables acoustically guides a passive bike riding sequence, where Daniel and Ana watch their avatars from above. A guard stops them when they reach the “Welcome to Cheyenne” sign with the walrus logo, the song fades out as they re-enter first person view.

The Wal-Group has progressed much further here than in Rawlins. The entire town is waltified. The Walrus on the Shield is all over the place. Wicki has set up a meeting with the resistance on the indymedia forum. Waiting.

“She should’ve been here by now…” Wicki is clicking away on her phone. “Oh Daniel! They’ve seen your TV spot — sorry, now we can’t take you with us.”

Ana considers her options. She’s seen the end of the scenario from the corporate side before, and is curious how things play out at the resistance end. So she decides to separate from Daniel for a moment: “Wait, I have an idea! Here Daniel, take my phone and live-stream what happens the parliament.” Wicki and Jack agree, and Daniel gets moving.

Parliament is in a historical building, fake Greek pillars and all. Daniel goes through security and meets Nancy inside: “Finally, here you are! Come on in, there’s a special event in the main hall.”

A gray-haired guy in a blue suit talks from the podium. “… But now I will no longer bore you and will introduce tonight’s superstar. And not just tonight’s, no, John Walton is the superstar of the century! A true Randian hero who brought back our beloved Wyoming from the brink — using nothing but the sheer force of his will! A big hand of applause, please!” Standing ovation from the senators and congress members as John Walton comes onstage.

John has a look of serene determination and of certainty, a look of ruthless innocence which would not seek forgiveness or grant it: “Citizens of Wyoming, the American Dream is finally real. The entire state is organized on free market principles, efficiency, business sense. Thanks to the WalGroup and its investments!” He allows a rhetorical pause, which Daniel fills with his own thoughts. Free market, what a joke — capitalism, okay, but when all goods on the market are owned by John, who would even call it a marketplace, let alone a free market? The woman sitting next to Daniel apparently agrees with him — she’s holding up a banner and security forces are moving towards her. But John interrupts them from the podium. “Oh, Senator McPhail, you have something to say?” She hesitates, apparently sensing a trap, but still gets up on stage.

“But before I hand you the microphone — let me demonstrate a brand new function of the Wal-Group project management software.” He pulls out a tablet, and the wall behind them lights up with a picture of children in a schoolyard. “Sarah McPhail.” Walton pushes a button. “The jacket your daughter is wearing, isn’t that a Rent-it-Wall model?” Two policemen appear in the schoolyard. “Ladies and gentlemen, let me show you the true meaning of libertarian freedom. I, the owner, will no longer let the offspring of this leech rent” — he looks at the senator with arrogance, tension and scorn and raises his voice “my property.” He swipes left on the tablet, and the screen shows policemen closing in on the girl, forcibly removing her clothes. John Walton talks on, giggling madly: “I only hope her underwear is not from Rent-it-Wall, that would be a little embarrassing for the young lady.” The policemen force the girl to take her shirt off. The other kids have formed a circle around them, pointing fingers and laughing. “Let’s zoom in a bit…” And indeed, there is the Walrus on the logo of her underwear.

Walton swipes right, and the policemen stop: “So now, esteemed Senator, What was it again you wanted to complain about?” The senator is ashen faced, shaken and silent. Walton moves in front of the podium, spreads his arms and proclaims:

“Le marché, c‘est moi!” His French has a terrible accent.

“вся власть на рынке”, whatever that meant.

“Markt macht frei.” His German is even worse than his French, and while his eyes focus on an imaginary point over their heads he continues,

“Make the market great again!”

A moment of silence — broken by shattering glass. “Behold, I’m your only salvation!” John screams those words in terror and runs offstage like a scared rabbit as resistance forces swing in through the broken windows. Jack’s at the front, leading the attack, an AK-47 slung over his shoulder. The image freezes, fades to grayscale, the Confedwars logo fades in, again playing ‘Here’s to you’ as the credits start rolling, starting with a summary of the Confedwars:

- Six weeks of mayhem

- A death toll of 150'000

- 20'000'000 people lose their homes

- Six months of military rule

- The secession of Texas, the Holy State of Christ and the Confederate States

- The checks and balances for economic power amendment, article one of the renewed unions constitution and the world’s first absolute limit on private wealth.

* * *
